.\" Manpage for Sysinternals Sysmon For Linux.
.\" Contact via http://github/Sysinternals to correct errors or typos.
.TH SYSMON 8 "23 Feb 2023" "1.1.0" "System Manager's Manual"

.SH NAME
sysmon \- System Monitor from Sysinternals

.SH SYNOPSIS
sysmon [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
System Monitor (Sysmon) is a system service and set of eBPF programs that,
once installed on a system, remains resident across system reboots to monitor
and log system activity to the Syslog. It provides detailed information about
process creations, network connections, and file creations and deletions. By
collecting the events it generates using SIEM agents and subsequently analyzing
them, you can identify malicious or anomalous activity and understand how
intruders and malware operate on your network.

Note that Sysmon does not provide analysis of the events it generates, nor does
it attempt to protect or hide itself from attackers.

Sysmon includes the following capabilities:

.IP \[bu] 2
Logs process creation with full command line for both current and parent
processes.
.IP \[bu]
Includes a process GUID in process create events to allow for correlation of
events even when Linux reuses process IDs.
.IP \[bu]
Includes a session GUID in each event to allow correlation of events on same
logon session.
.IP \[bu]
Logs file creations and deletions.
.IP \[bu]
Logs opens for raw read access of disks and volumes.
.IP \[bu]
Optionally logs network connections, including each connection’s source
process, IP addresses and port numbers.
.IP \[bu]
Logs ptrace (process access) activity.
.IP \[bu]
Rule filtering to include or exclude certain events dynamically.

.PP
Events are stored in the Syslog, often found at /var/log/syslog.

Use the '\-? config' command for configuration file documentation. More
examples are available on the Sysinternals website.

Neither install nor uninstall requires a reboot.

.SH OPTIONS
  \-c [config]   Update configuration of an installed Sysmon driver or dump the
                current configuration if no other argument is provided. Optionally
                take a configuration file.
  \-i [config]   Install service and driver. Optionally take a configuration file.
  \-s            Print configuration schema definition of the specified version.
                Specify 'all' to dump all schema versions (default is latest)).
  \-u            Uninstall service and driver. Adding force causes uninstall to proceed
                even when some components are not installed.
  \-btf <path>   Uses the specified offline BTF file.
  \-?            Help.
  \-? config     Configuration help.

.SH SEE ALSO
ps(1), perf(1), top(1), procmon(1), procdump(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH NOTES
File paths are typically constructed in eBPF by traversing the file system.
It is possible that system limits will in some cases prevent the full path
from being recovered. In this situations, the first character of the path will
be a '+' to indicate that more directories may have preceded it.

.SH AUTHOR
Sysinternals - www.sysinternals.com

Mark Russinovich, Thomas Garnier and Kevin Sheldrake

Copyright (C) 2014-2023 Microsoft Corporation

.SH COPYRIGHT
The userland part of Sysmon is licensed under MIT; the eBPF parts are licensed
under GPL2.


